Find: Why we standardised the entry requirement content (#428)
DFE-Digital/bat-design-history: app/posts/find-teacher-training/2021-08-16-standardised-entry-requirement-descriptions.md

---
title: Standardising entry requirement content
description: Why we have made the descriptions of entry requirements more consistent
date: 2021-08-16
---

> For the 2021 to 2022 cycle, providers were asked to describe the academic qualification entry requirements for each course as a single free text field.

Reviewer: Make it clear this was the case for earlier cycles too?

```suggestion
Prior to the 2022 to 2023 cycle, providers were asked to describe the academic qualification entry requirements for each course as a single free text field.
```

> Prior to the 2022 to 2023 cycle, providers were asked to describe the academic qualification entry requirements for each course as a single free text field.

Reviewer 2: 1) Use 'Before' instead of 'Prior to'.

2) Use 'in a single free text field' instead of 'as a single free text field'.

As there is a minimum initial teacher training entry requirement across all courses, this led to the standard entry requirements being described in different ways by different providers.

For instance:

> GCSE Maths, English and Science at Grade C or higher or equivalent

> GCSEs: At least a Grade C or Grade 4 at GCSE (or equivalent) in English Language, Mathematics and Science is essential for all applicants.

> GCSE in English (or approved equivalent) at grade C/Level 4 or above GCSE in Mathematics (or approved equivalent) at grade C/Level 4 or above GCSE in Science (or approved equivalent) at grade C/Level 4 or above

> These minor inconsistencies may be confusing for candidates, and the requirements weren’t always written in the easiest to understand way.

Reviewer 2: Change to: 'These small differences may be confusing for candidates. And the way providers had written requirements could be difficult to understand.'

> Instead, for the 2022 to 2023 cycle, we have changed the Publish interface to only ask providers to specify the entry requirements that may differ across courses, namely the [acceptance of pending GCSEs and GCSE equivalency tests](/publish-teacher-training-courses/pending-gcses-equivalency-tests/) and the [minimum degree class required](/publish-teacher-training-courses/degree-entry-requirements/).

Reviewer 2: Suggestion: break up the sentence and simplify the language a bit, as below.

'For the 2022 to 2023 cycle, we've changed the Publish interface to only ask providers to specify the entry requirements that may differ across courses. 

These include: 

- whether or not they accept [pending GCSEs and GCSE equivalency tests](/publish-teacher-training-courses/pending-gcses-equivalency-tests/) 
- the [minimum degree class required](/publish-teacher-training-courses/degree-entry-requirements/)'

Author: Good idea – I've done this. Although I changed "These include" to "These are" and included an extra bullet, as we may as well list all the changes.

These changes allow us use consistent language to describe the standard entry requirements.

## New content structure

### Primary courses

The standardised content is:

> An undergraduate degree, or equivalent.
>
> GCSE grade 4 (&#8203;C) or above in English, maths and science, or equivalent qualification.

Then the following paragraph is constructed from the provider’s answers to the pending GCSEs and equivalency tests questions, for example:

> We’ll consider candidates who are currently taking GCSEs. We will not consider candidates who need to take GCSE equivalency tests.

or

> We’ll consider candidates who are currently taking GCSEs. We’ll consider candidates who need to take a GCSE equivalency test in English, maths, or science.

Where providers do accept equivalency tests, they are asked to give details, and this free text field is shown at the end.

### Secondary courses

> For Secondary courses, a standardised paragraph is added about the degree subject:

Reviewer: Should ‘primary’ and ‘secondary’ be capitalised? 

```suggestion
For secondary courses, a standardised paragraph is added about the degree subject:
```

Author: 🤷🏻‍♂️

> Your degree subject should be in [course subject] or a similar subject. Otherwise you’ll need to prove your subject knowledge in some other way.

Providers are able to add additional text after this if they have further degree subject requirements, such as a percentage of modules being in the relevant subject.

The GCSE requirements for Secondary courses do not include science:

> GCSE grade 4 (&#8203;C) or above in English and maths, or equivalent qualification.

## Findings from user research

> There was consistent confusion around the term 'equivalent', as it is used both in 'equivalency test' and 'or equivalent', but these mean different things. To improve this, we have qualified these terms as 'GCSE equivalency test' and 'or equivalent qualification'.

Reviewer 2: Suggestion: 'There was confusion around the term 'equivalent'. It's used for 'equivalency tests', but also to mean an 'equivalent' qualification. To make this clearer, we've used the terms ‘GCSE equivalency test’ or ‘equivalent qualification’.'

> From speaking to providers, we learnt that there is a wide variation in how GCSE equivalency tests are handled, with some running these in-house and others requiring specific third-party companies. This meant that we could not use terms like "offered" or "accepted". Instead the language refers to considering candidates who need to take the a GCSE equivalency test, with the free text paragraph after giving details.

Reviewer 2: Suggestion: break up the first sentence, as below.

'We learnt that providers handle GCSE equivalency tests differently. Some providers run them in-house, others only accept tests from specific third-party companies.'

For instance:

> GCSE Maths, English and Science at Grade C or higher or equivalent

> GCSEs: At least a Grade C or Grade 4 at GCSE (or equivalent) in English Language, Mathematics and Science is essential for all applicants.

> GCSE in English (or approved equivalent) at grade C/Level 4 or above GCSE in Mathematics (or approved equivalent) at grade C/Level 4 or above GCSE in Science (or approved equivalent) at grade C/Level 4 or above

These small differences may be confusing for candidates. The way providers had written requirements could also be difficult to understand.

For the 2022 to 2023 cycle, we've changed the Publish interface to only ask providers to specify the entry requirements that may differ across courses.

These are:

* whether or not they [accept pending GCSEs and GCSE equivalency tests](/publish-teacher-training-courses/pending-gcses-equivalency-tests/)
* the [minimum degree class required](/publish-teacher-training-courses/degree-entry-requirements/)
* any additional degree subject requirements (for secondary courses)

> These changes allow us use consistent language to describe the standard entry requirements.

Reviewer 2: Add 'to' between 'us' and 'use'.

## New content structure

### Primary courses

The standardised content is:

> An undergraduate degree, or equivalent.
>
> GCSE grade 4 (&#8203;C) or above in English, maths and science, or equivalent qualification.

> Then the following paragraph is constructed from the provider’s answers to the pending GCSEs and equivalency tests questions, for example:

Reviewer 2: Replace 'constructed' with 'created'.

> We’ll consider candidates who are currently taking GCSEs. We will not consider candidates who need to take GCSE equivalency tests.

or

> We’ll consider candidates who are currently taking GCSEs. We’ll consider candidates who need to take a GCSE equivalency test in English, maths, or science.

> Where providers do accept equivalency tests, they are asked to give details, and this free text field is shown at the end.

Reviewer 2: Replace 'they are' with 'they're'.

### Secondary courses

For secondary courses, a standardised paragraph is added about the degree subject:

> Your degree subject should be in [course subject] or a similar subject. Otherwise you’ll need to prove your subject knowledge in some other way.

Providers are able to add additional text after this if they have further degree subject requirements, such as a percentage of modules being in the relevant subject.

The GCSE requirements for Secondary courses do not include science:

> GCSE grade 4 (&#8203;C) or above in English and maths, or equivalent qualification.

## Findings from user research

> There was confusion around the term ‘equivalent’, as it was for both ‘equivalency tests’, but also to mean an ‘equivalent’ qualification. To improve this, we’ve used the terms ‘GCSE equivalency test’ or ‘equivalent qualification’.

Reviewer 2: The first line of this paragraph is still a bit clunky. Suggestion: 'There was confusion around the term 'equivalent', which refers to 'equivalency tests', but also 'equivalent' qualifications.'

> We learnt that providers handle GCSE equivalency tests differently. Some providers run them in-house, others only accept tests from specific third-party companies. This meant that we could not use terms like ‘offered’ or ‘accepted’. Instead the language refers to considering candidates who need to take the a GCSE equivalency test, with the free text paragraph after giving details.

Reviewer 2: Remove 'the' in 'who need to take the a GCSE equivalency test'.
